




h, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December;
s of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.”
Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
Nameless here for evermore.
each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting—
By that Heaven that bends above us—by that God we both adore—
Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!
the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain














But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling,
fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,
Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
ird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
ut whose velvet-violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er,
ack into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
Darkness there and nothing more.
y the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door—
ing, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;
less,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store
the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only
ep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door—
solate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted—
Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore—
n there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore;
s there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!”
Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”
ancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore—
e see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore—
ollowed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore—
y heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;—
Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,
Merely this and nothing more.
Nothing farther then he uttered—not a feather then he fluttered—
Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
is the wind and nothing more!”
nd sat, and nothing more.
t one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
ough its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore;
o that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
n the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before.”
ome late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door;—
tartled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
That I scarce was sure I heard you”—here I opened wide the door;—
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
f ‘Never—nevermore’.”
urely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice;
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore!”
Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven,
Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
o the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core;
This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o’er,
ll this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
s home by Horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore—
upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door—
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.
his I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!”—
She shall press, ah, nevermore!
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent thee
Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore;
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!”
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
This it is and nothing more.”
Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!—
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
ll I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before—
hen the bird said “Nevermore.”
eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming,
some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door—
rilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
or we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?”
Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!
my loneliness unbroken!—quit the bust above my door!
no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
Only this and nothing more.”
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
ake thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!”
is some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door—
rom my books surcease of sorrow—sorrow for the lost Lenore—
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
nce upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
With such name as “Nevermore.”
Shall be lifted—nevermore!
ver many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore—
