
















            Darkness there and nothing more.
            Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”
            Merely this and nothing more.
            Nameless here for evermore.
            Of ‘Never—nevermore’.”
            Only this and nothing more.”
            Perched, and sat, and nothing more.
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”
            Shall be lifted—nevermore
            She shall press, ah, nevermore!
            Then the bird said “Nevermore.”
            This it is and nothing more.”
            With such name as “Nevermore.”
            ’Tis the wind and nothing more!”
      Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore—
    Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December;
    And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming,
    And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
    And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
    And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
    And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?”
    And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
    Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
    But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling,
    But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only
    But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
    But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,
    But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door—
    Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
    Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
    Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted—
    Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow
    Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door—
    Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore—
    Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore—
    For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
    From my books surcease of sorrow—sorrow for the lost Lenore—
    It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
    Leave my loneliness unbroken!—quit the bust above my door!
    Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
    Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,
    Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;
    Nothing farther then he uttered—not a feather then he fluttered—
    On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o’er,
    On this home by Horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore—
    Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
    Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
    Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore;
    So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
    Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
    Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
    Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
    Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
    This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
    This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
    Till I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before—
    While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
    “Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting—
    “Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!
    “Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!—
    “Surely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice;
    “Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent thee
    “’Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door—
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
But whose velvet-violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er,
By that Heaven that bends above us—by that God we both adore—
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.”
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore—
In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore;
Is there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!”
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;—
On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before.”
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore—
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door—
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!”
Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door;—
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;
Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!”
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore!”
That I scarce was sure I heard you”—here I opened wide the door;—
That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!”—
Though its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore;
Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core;
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
“Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store
“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!
“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
“Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven,
“’Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door—
